congratulations
chris nessler
characters
good afternoon
i'd like to welcome y'all to the
february regular pennsylvania county
school board meeting tonight
um if you're bear with us we have some
closed session items to take care of
don't have a motion to reconvene and
action items first of all let's have a
roll call for attendance please
mr burton
president mr henderson president mrs
merrick's president mr mills here mr
moon
here now do i have a motion to certify
closed items and
action items
roll call please
mr burton aye mr henderson mark miss
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss hi
i have an announcement to make
the school board vanessa district seat
has become vacant by the resignation of
reverend raymond ramsey
the board will follow the code of
virginia and fill in his vacancy
so i need a motion to accept the
resignation of reverend raven ramsey
don't have a motion i'll make the motion
we'll accept the resignation of reverend
remington raymond ramsey okay
any discussion
roll call
mr burton aye mr henderson mark merricks
aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr doss all
right okay
we have a motion to authorize the
chairman to petition the circuit court
for writ of special election for the
banister district school board seat to
fulfill the remaining term through
december 31 2025
second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
okay
the school board will be seeking
applications for interested individuals
for the bannister district school board
seat
for the interim period effective until
the next general election which is
november the 8th 2022
and the person so elected
has to be qualified and live in the
banister district
a public hearing to review any and all
applications received will be scheduled
on monday february the 28th 2022.
now we have a motion to approve
personnel changes for february 8 2022 as
presented
i'll make that motion
second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
henderson all right miss merrick aye mr
mills aye mr moon aye mr dallas hi
we have a motion to approve the release
from compulsory attendance for one
student
have a motion
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr may aye
okay we need to add
an agenda item for 10 3
and it will be to elect a new vice
chairman since mr ramsey was our vice
chairman and has resigned
so 10 3 please for electing new vice
chairman i have a motion to approve the
agenda with change
okay i have a second second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
henderson aye ms merricks all right mr
mills aye mr moon all right mr doubts
aye
consent agenda
second
there any discussion on the consent
agenda
roll call please mr burton aye mr
henderson aye ms merrick aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
now with public presentations
the character word of the month is
self-control ms fletcher from dan river
good evening school board members staff
parents and those watching online thank
you for giving me the opportunity to
speak this month on self-control
self-control is a very important role in
everyone's life whether you're five
years old 17 years old or 55 years old
self-control is vital this valuable
concept is needed throughout life and
can be used to influence the power you
have over yourself and others
self-control is a very hard thing to
master as i think many in this room can
attest
whether you're a child controlling your
want to sneak a candy bar from your
mother a teenage girl wanting to sneak
out to go to a party or a man at work
wanting to yell at his boss for a
mistake self-control is a necessary
character trait we need in many seasons
of our life
many books and articles have been
written about self-controls and ways to
improve it however it is still an issue
we all struggle with and will continue
to struggle with there are many things
we can do to improve self-control that i
think would be helpful for all of us
listening tonight regardless of our age
or stage of life
one such way is to avoid temptation
if there is something in our lives that
we struggle with removing from sight and
mind is a great way to control ourselves
another great way to practice
self-control is to prioritize the
things in our life where we want success
according to motivational speaker jim
rohn discipline is the bridge between
goals and accomplishments if a student
wants to get good grades they have to
prioritize their grades over other
things
self-control would be not hanging out
with friends every night or playing
video games for five hours getting goods
amounts of sleep and asking for tutoring
are also ways that can prioritize their
time to get the grades they want
self-control is a very hard discipline
for people to follow but when doing so
the rewards outweigh the sacrifices
as the cletus once said self-control is
a chief element in self-respect and
self-respect is the chief element in
control let us all be courageous and
practice self-control thank you
[Applause]
okay request to address the bowl and i
think we have seven his hand cognitive
names yes sherry calloway
miss calloway
all right lori ann ashworth
i was hoping i could get rid of this for
a few minutes
um
good evening ladies and gentlemen
of the board and superintendent dr jones
i'm here tonight because
as a teacher
a veteran teacher
i have been a little disillusioned and i
really
can't continue without speaking my mind
as i'm known well known to do
and it has nothing to do with covid
none of that type of thing but the idea
that in the past few years and a lot of
it has been because of covid there's
been a lack of consistency
and this lack of a systematic approach
has
led to in my opinion a larger problem
there's a knee-jerk reaction oh it
didn't work let's change this let's
change that
um
and then as you keep changing things it
has such a destructive
effect
on the environment for us as the the
teachers the administrators
and we have to kind of keep that away
from the kids of course
when you change a process any process
doesn't matter what you're doing
you need to allow time for that process
to stabilize
because by changing something you've
disrupted it
if you're familiar with any of the iso
processes
you want to wait to see how the
the process itself responds and not how
you feel it responded you have to
collect data i'm a science teacher i
know all about the data
in my experience with iso's uh the iso
processes it's about 30 days give or
take
and every time that a process has been
changed and i'm using this general
statement as either the board
the superintendent's office the school
board
we've always i've always called it
central office
has changed it again they'll change it
again in a short process a short period
of time and
it might be for reasons
they understand but we don't understand
it
which leads to frustrations
um
going back to the beginning of last
school year trying to get used to
everything
the fact that we had a rapid decision to
that we were going to provide all these
packets and do this type of stuff
the process literally was changed four
times in one week
honestly personally i lost i thought i
was going to lose my mind and i
definitely found my metal
military vocabulary back then
during those first few months
it was difficult i was in a very unique
situation that um i i don't want to
discuss here but it was really hard
when you are changing a process and
there's three or four of us trying to
fulfill that process
and it became a chaotic atmosphere
regarding
everything else
was that
there was a ding was
just a few seconds left okay well um
i one of the problems that we're having
now is the the concept of wanting the
schools to do oh okay
sorry
thank you thank you three minutes goes
by pretty quick
well if you think the change has been
going on
now we have new leadership in richmond
get ready some more coming i'm sure
yeah
is that all
right next miss gwen
gene evans
four thousand dollars
good evening pennsylvania county school
board
guests and visitors
i am rural gene evans
i live in the westover district
while i am neither parent
grandparent nor great-grandparent
of a school-aged child
i am here to address what i see as child
abuse in this district
i have two issues
first our teachers and administrators
are being held prisoner or hostage
because of your requirement to wear a
mask
i ask that you free our teachers and
administrators from this ridiculous mass
mandate
secondly studies show that in classroom
situations unmasked people can spread
viruses in less than five minutes
cloth masks
can spread viruses in less than 20
minutes
and an n95 mask
according to the manufacturer
is intended for short-term single use
spread viruses in less than 90 minutes
it is time that we stand up to
washington and richmond and in this
ridiculous mass mandate
please stop requiring our bus drivers
aides and students to wear a mask on
county school buses
cdc recommendations are just that
recommendations not directives
i will not read the two legal opinions i
have listed
it is obvious that some of you think
that masks are beneficial on some level
and have limited exposure in working
with hazardous environments where your
life depends on your respirator
not a mask
i have worked in plants manufacture
chlorine
hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide
and the possibility of a leak could be
fatal
none of these facilities issued cloth
mask for protection i am sure that all
of you are well educated and while you
are not educators you sit on the school
board and make policy
i would implore you to research
viruses
masks
particle size
and effectiveness for yourself
all of this information is readily
available on google searches on the
internet
please end all mass requirements
thank you
thank you mr evans
okay that's all we have signed up to
speak tonight
up next is recognition of korea and
technical education month
you doing that ms rigney
did you get the proclamation
from the state yet
no okay so before and i know i have
updates to do too so i won't do that now
but um this month is career and
technical education month so i want to
take this opportunity to thank the board
dr jones and all of our teachers
students parents community members
business and industry partners across
the region across the state and across
the nation for all of their support and
their efforts in recognizing career and
technical education month and as you
will hear when i give my updates there
will be additional information with
regards to some of the things that we're
doing
that will impose
upon why the importance of career and
technical education month is there
thank you thank you
i know it's been a challenge the last
year and a half two years to try to get
through ct because i always the students
need so
we'll keep plugging away and hopefully
we're over it
next we want to recognize that 2021 22
virginia acte korean technical education
administrator of the year dr jones uh
yes sir mr dawson school board members
it's my pleasure to recognize again mrs
reagan who was just up here
she is our director of career and
technical education and adult education
for pennsylvania county schools and she
has been named the
2021-2022 virginia association of career
and technical education career and
technical administrator of the year
quite an honor for her
this award recognizes administrative ct
professionals
at the school district county state and
federal level who have demonstrated
leadership in ensuring teacher and
student success and have made
significant contributions toward
innovative
unique and effective career technical
education programs
candidates nominated for this award must
be an administrative role in a local
school system
they can be administrators program
specialists or coordinators
candidates must be members of the state
association of career and technical
education for consideration at the state
level candidates are evaluating the
following criteria contributions to
teacher and student success
innovations in career and technical
education
leadership in the local and greater cte
community
mrs reidy was named this
the the administrator of the year at the
virginia a c e t e leadership seminar
awards luncheon on january 13 2022
and her application will advance to the
region ii level for judging in march we
feel very
good that mrs reagan will be in high
consideration for this next level award
school members
i think that when mrs reagney presents
later on this evening you'll see the
outstanding work that she's done in her
leadership in ct over the last 10 years
and i think that you'll be well pleased
and so
quite an honor
and quite deserved mrs reagan so thank
you very much
[Applause]
[Music]
ms rigney that's a great accomplishment
speaks well for the work you've done
congratulations
okay
next i want to recognize the school
board appreciation week
i want to read the proclamation to you
it says school board clerks in each
locality throughout our great
commonwealth are appointed by law to
fulfill their duties and
responsibilities
school board clerks
are responsible for keeping accurate
records of the meetings and proceedings
for the school board
a record of all receipts disbursements
and the record of all official acts
school board clerks perform such other
duties in connection with the school
business in his or her county or city as
may be required by the school board
school board clerks maintain frequent
contact with the public including
parents employees in the media on behalf
of the school board and the
superintendent
school board clerks
and their performance of their duties
are often required to work extra hours
attending school board meetings school
board
clerks join with school boards to help
ensure the students achieve their
highest potential
school board clerks provide an
invaluable service for school board
members and superintendents the vsba
board of directors does hereby recognize
the third week of february
as school board appreciation week in the
commonwealth virginia
and pennsylvania school board joins the
bsba and recognized many and varied
contributions by the school board clerks
so i would like to recognize our two
clerks
first i have miss worley who's a backup
miss worley
i think
thank you
[Applause]
i can tell you if it wasn't for her i
would stay in trouble all the time
i did
not much used to smile you can't see it
but
[Applause]
okay
dr jones school board appreciation month
yes sir mr dahl school board members of
february and and audience
february is school board appreciation
month
and on behalf of the
staff of pennsylvania county schools
i would like to thank each of our school
board members for your outstanding
leadership
the board has steadfastly followed its
mission to educate students to be
successful and productive citizens
each member faces complex and demanding
challenges that few people fully
understand
the scope
and the far-reaching implications of
each decision is made
that is made has rippling effects across
the communities that each member serves
their job is to establish a vision for
the education program
and the design and structure to achieve
that vision
and to strongly advocate for continuous
improvement of the students in which
they in which in the community which
they serve
school members attend an endless number
of meetings and school functions
study reams reports agendas and
proposals and make many difficult
decisions
when board members meet they work
collectively to lead school divisions
and consistently strive toward the goal
of high academic achievement
members speak out for the school
division and the students they serve
they contribute hundreds of hours each
year to leading our school division they
craft policy listen to staff and student
concerns approve instructional programs
attend training and seminars and keep
abreast of the latest trends in
educational leadership
board members are deeply involved in the
communities they serve and spend a great
deal of time at the many school
activities in their areas
they have great concern for the students
and staff in this division and are
driven to lead
the division so that students can
succeed
this evening we have a small token of
appreciation for our board members we
have a certificate so please join me in
recognizing our school board members as
i pass out the their certificates
[Applause]
[Music]
we'll come over here
foreign
thank you
thank you dr jones yes now the pea the
other dr jones
i see you back there
good evening good evening mrs burton
i come bearing gifts i'm going to waive
my time tonight as you all have a full
agenda and we will return to you in
march of 2022 sir thank you you're quite
welcome you have a great evening thank
you too
okay
up next is report from the student
representatives on vaping and cell phone
using it to schools now how do y'all
want to do this students
i didn't hear him she said he just
talked with mike's there just just
talking to mike pull the mic down so i
can hear you
okay okay can you all hear me yep okay
um so when talking
let me get situated here okay when
talking to these students and both
teachers at our schools concerning the
cell phone policy
um i
obviously there are a lot of broad
answers and from quite a few students
they were
very much in wanting of just cell phone
access completely but when talking to
many students and teachers
the general consensus was that
cell phones should be allowed in the
hallways or in lunchroom areas not
necessarily in classrooms because that
would offer
a bigger distraction
but
students
a lot of students based on their parents
their parents will call them or text
them while they're at school
like i my friends have had multiple
occasions where their mother is calling
them and then their mom gets upset with
them because they can't answer because
they're in the middle of class
and so things like that that i think if
we were able to give our students a bit
of a leeway when it came to the cell
phone policy that you would see less
disturbances of the rules that kids
wouldn't be as obligated to break them
if there wasn't a lot of time for them
to use their phones i mean this is
we are living in the 21st century where
everything is on our phones i mean we
get class schedule like we have
assignments on our phones we have power
school i mean there are so many things
that are delegated not just in school
but in our social life and work that are
used on our phones it is
our main source for a lot of things so i
feel like
the school
it would be in some of the schools best
interest to
lighten the
restrictions of cell phone policies
in favor of just a
bit more time for the students to be
able to use their phones like i said in
the hallways
in lunch rooms
in order to prevent cheating because i
know that that is one of the concerns
that students or that
this has
would be
that
as long as the teacher is monitoring
the students more with their cell phones
like when they're taking tests which
the teachers already do i mean students
cheat
students will try to cheat using their
phones whether
it's allowed or not allowed so i mean as
long as a teacher is monitoring the
classroom and
using like
whatever resources they have available
to them i think that would be in their
best interest and i really don't think
that you would have like a fluctuation
of students cheating using their cell
phones versus not
and a lot of students felt that if
they were able to use their phones
during and a lot of time
they would not feel that it would be
necessary to get on their phone during
class or go to the bathrooms to be able
to use their phones because for a lot of
kids like i said
parents calling managers asking if they
can come in for work that day like you
have students who have
lives outside of the school and so they
they have to have contact with those
with those people so i think that it
would be in the school's best interest
to allow the students to use their
phones
and i would also say um i know a big
issue this year has been fights not just
in our county but
in schools all over the area um and i
would definitely say just because
you know the big issue the big ticket
issue lately has been coronavirus
keeping the masks up but i know the
schools haven't necessarily been
discussing as much about
anti-bullying
and those things so i would definitely
suggest
um
trying to talk to students again even
through
assemblies with the principals even i
know i get kind of scared talking to mr
reese sometimes you know
um but i would definitely start to
encouraging more
with the students appropriate cell phone
usage because i know that's a big issue
with the reason why we can't have them
as well is kids threatening each other
kids using their phones inappropriately
at school and it comes back on the
school if their phone is being used
inappropriately while they're there so i
would definitely try to encourage
proper cell phone usage with students as
well because
we know better but sometimes it's nice
to have a good reminder
okay
everything
i would just like to agree with them
[Laughter]
i'll love it
right yeah they pretty much wrapped it
up for me can i make one additional note
um when it comes to like the um
inappropriate cell phone usage or like
the bullying and stuff
most of that stuff is happening
regardless of whether it is
allowed in school or not these kids are
still getting into fights over social
media they're still
texting each other they're still taking
pictures or taking video like it doesn't
whether it's
illegal i guess in a sense in the
schools or not it doesn't matter it's
still going to happen anyways because
i mean frankly these students have like
we've grown up on cell phones we've
grown up on technology these are things
that we're well aware of and we know how
to use and
as much as i'd say that i would love for
our students to not bully each other
relentlessly or to not start fights over
social media when we're at school
the reality is that it's
it's inevitable so i would just like to
keep that in mind of just the
practicality of these
so
thank you okay thank y'all
next we have the 2022-2023
budget update um
miss worley before you come i'm going to
ask mr moon if he has anything he would
like to add
anything though
no not at the moment or you know we did
talk about in the retreat
about putting out a strong effort you
know going forward on this sales tax
increase for this fall which i think
ought to be
you know out there on the forefront uh
but uh nothing dealing with the budget
at the moment
for the 22-23 school year
other than what mrs swirley has
miss world you have any updates for us
okay
it it will probably take a while to get
the approved
budget back from the state because the
governor's made some amendments since
he's a new governor now it's got to go
through both houses so
i don't think that's going to be a quick
process this year
all right update on korea and technical
education ms rigney
so lots of great things happening in
career and technical education um
over the last 10 years as i've presented
to you many times you've heard about all
the great initiatives that we've got
going many of those are still taking
place
expanding growing bringing on new
initiatives just to give you a little
bit of insight starting with our middle
school programs certainly our career
connections program is on all four of
our middle schools going very well
teachers are doing a phenomenal job
students enrolled all of our programs
are at max capacity so we're extremely
proud of that and we have started some
opportunities again bringing visitors
back in to tour our programs and see the
pipeline that we've developed we've also
had an increase in
other school divisions school systems
not only within the state of virginia
but also other states
that are inquiring about what we've got
going on in our middle school programs
and wishing to see that i actually did
some informational sessions for a group
today and have another group coming in
in two weeks
transitioning to our programs at the
high school a lot of great things going
on there
programs are starting to get back into
competition so we're extremely excited
about that our jrotc programs have
really been hard at work and drill meets
and some other competitions
our agriculture programs ffa been very
active
with competitions and career development
events certainly with spring coming on
we'll be actively engaged in those we've
got a lot of events coming up um
actually in the next couple of weekends
at virginia tech for hippology and
stockton's contest
dr jessica jones and her students just
recently participated in the dcc idea
fair we had a great turnout there and
great participation on that i actually
have to serve as a judge on that panel
for pennsylvania county schools danville
city schools and danl community college
pennsylvania county schools had the most
participants in that so we're very
excited about that as well
in our career and technical center a lot
of things taken place
we've got all of our grants in place
we're beginning to wrap up some of our
grants our go virginia grant we're in
the final stages of that with phase two
we're in the process of talking about
phase three and what that looks like and
i'll add just a little bit more about
that in a moment as i talk about the
stem academy and the ninth and 10th
grade programs that we're working on
some of the new additions that we've got
going on at the career and technical
center we're certainly expanding many of
our programs one of the new most
exciting things that we've just done
renovated and moved this summer was our
i.t program and mr mckinney's program we
took a major shift in that program and
kind of the platform and how we actually
implemented that program and really did
it based off of industry feedback and
what those students would need to know
going into industry so if you get a
chance i certainly invite you to come
out and see all of the new updates
changes
we certainly appreciate the support that
we got from school board board of
supervisors and the drf for the funding
for that that was not a go virginia
initiative but we did receive funding to
implement that program and we're excited
about that our teachers are going
through training so it's a very intense
program with a lot of hands-on
activities that relate to what's going
on in business and industry today
we have a lot of other programs that are
going through program accreditation also
the revamp revitalization of some of our
programs we have finalized the setup of
our automation and robotics program so
that will begin in this upcoming school
year we've moved our hvac and industrial
maintenance programs down to a bigger
shop so we're excited about bringing
that back this upcoming school year as
well
we're in the final or we hope to be the
final stages soon of revamping
some of the cosmetology things as well
as our auto tech we've added some new
pieces of equipment in those two
programs and they're also in the middle
of renovating our welding program
we've put some new welders in there
we're working with some companies now on
ventilation systems and some things that
that need to take place in there to get
that lab up and going we're hoping to
get some things done this summer with
that so we're excited about that and
some things we have coming down the pipe
for that
we also just recently were named
by the depend depart department of
defense a defense manufacturing
community of which we've been working
with
dod the pentagon
with adele ratcliffe as well as troy
simpson the institute and some other
individuals we've got a little over 500
um that money will be invested in our
ninth and tenth grade programs but we're
looking at how we can also implement
some additional platforms with that
within our
program pathway so we're excited about
that we also just recently received some
funding incorpora in cooperation with
the institute for our experience works
program with work based learning that is
also something that is coming down from
the state pretty quickly miss dalton and
i participated in a webinar yesterday
some things are going to come down
very rapidly a quick turnaround process
so we're working closely with community
partners and how we can increase work
work-based learning opportunities for
all students this is not just something
for career and technical education but
all students across the division and
actually dropping back down into middle
school programs as well
some of the other things we've got going
on certainly centered around career
exploration and giving our students
opportunity they did participate in our
sova career expo again this year that
was a virtual event this year so we do
appreciate all the business and industry
partners and sector panels that
participated in that we're working
closely with the county in hopes that we
can also offer the summer internship
programs again this year um providing
that through our major clarity platform
which we've implemented we're year two
of that and hopes to increase
opportunities for our students
in work-based learning
and also academic and career planning
as we transition into getting these
students prepared for careers we are in
the middle of wrapping up tours ms
dalton and i just held tours over the
last two weeks at the career and
technical center prior to that we
actually done so i'll do a little bit of
overlap between stem and career and
technical education we did presentations
to all of the middle schools and high
schools for the pctc programs as well as
the stem academy programs
giving them some insight and then we've
had the tours over the last two weeks at
the career and technical center
as of today ms ms dalton has already
received over 450 applications for
students interested in enrolling at the
career and technical center
and as many of you may or may not know
we only have about 300 slots so we're
excited to have certainly more students
applying for these slots at the current
technical center but we certainly wish
that we could accommodate all of them
and the deadline for the applications is
not until march 1st
so we certainly think that we'll hear
and see a lot more applications coming
through the system
so a lot of great opportunities taking
place a lot more to come
like i said as the spring season turns
for us we've got a lot of activities
planned a lot of opportunities we have
had an increased
participation in tours and we actually
just recently had a group in from the
netherlands and we had a group in from
portsmouth area down next to the
shipyard i'm very interested and very
intrigued with what we've got going on
in a career technical center this was a
new industry looking to locate here and
i can tell you and miss um dalton and dr
jones was there with us that day too i
think they were ready to sign the papers
that day to seal the deal so we're
excited about that we also got to
participate in tyson foods and their
groundbreaking ceremony we actually took
a group of students out to that and that
was
very exciting we took pctc students as
well as agriculture students from
chatham high school to get involved in
that
so we're excited about the opportunities
that are in the forefront we've got
several other economic development
opportunities that we've been talking
with our economic development offices in
danville city and in pennsylvania county
and we're still continuing to work with
caesars virginia and opportunities and
training that we can provide for
students in the hospitality and tourism
also in the mechanical industry sectors
with that so we're excited about those
opportunities and also ms dalton and i
have received an increase in phone calls
from not um
not just upcoming businesses that are
looking to locate here but current
business and industry partners that are
starting to realize that we've got
pretty much a gold mine sitting at the
pennsylvania current technical center
with training and opportunities for
students we actually toured a facility
this morning met with some business
business partners we've had about four
other phone calls between last week and
this week and we actually just got
another one before we left the office
this evening so we've got a lot planned
and getting those partnerships created
so we're excited about that
any questions about career and technical
education for our transition over to to
stem
yeah one how can we increase and how can
we
supply
the stuff to
accommodate all those 450 what do we
need to do so we need expansions on our
facilities
or a new facility would be
awesome
but we do we are we're
space is the biggest space is our
biggest concern we've got 19 programs at
the career and technical center every
inch of space um
we're at capacity there's no room and
you know we certainly have a lot of
business in industry construction is is
really hitting us hard right now wanting
wanting us to bring back building trades
and some construction so i've had some
conversations and collaborations with
those groups but um we just we don't
have anywhere else to put
to put any any programs
so we need to work hard on making that
happen and you know we need to start
with local government we need to also
start with richmond
they need to understand
what this is now
a lot different than it was a few years
ago it is and i think it's important
i'll share this we actually had someone
in from the newspaper this week
important for people to understand that
career and technical education certainly
not what it was
5 10 15 and especially 20 years ago and
understanding the the difference in and
the needs of these programs the skill
sets that students need to have when
they go out into business and industry
and we are a model in pennsylvania
county we've got we've got individuals
from all over the country
internationally that are looking at our
model arkansas and i think i've shared
this before arkansas peak innovation
center will be opening up and i
encourage you to look at it online
they came and visited us multiple times
and and they are opening a career in
technical center based off of the the
model that we have here so it's exciting
to see that other other states
value what we're doing and we still have
a close relationship with them in
arkansas
but
again we've got we've got to have that
support we've certainly reached out to
to our legislators and to others and
making sure that they're putting funds
and things into career and technical
education and to capital improvements as
well because certainly we've got to have
the facilities and and to be able to
train those
students mr dawson
if you recall mr dolls part of the sales
tax referendum
that money was going to be spent for an
expansion of the queer technical center
so this really speaks volumes to we we
really need that expansion because we
have an additional really half of a
school 150 children that that are
seeking
application to be in the programs
and we've still got three weeks left
worth of receiving applications so yeah
it's early and i certainly think that's
it's going to be an increase as we
continue with the career connections
program at the middle school
but also our new stem initiative at the
stem academy in the ninth and tenth
grade programs i think we're going to
see an even larger increase
next year and years to follow with with
students who have an interest in these
program because they're getting more
exploration and more
involvement in them and understanding
what the programs are about
you know i spent a whole career working
in a manufacturing facility that used
state-of-the-art equipment
and i can tell you in the last
what 10 years
of what's changed out there is just
amazing
you know it kind of started back when we
when we did the machining program and it
just kind of kept going
and
it's amazing what you've got after that
now and and i wish we had twice the room
or three times a room
because every kid i wished every child
could go
um
so
you want to talk about stem now so i can
i can transition to stem um we certainly
tie that right into what we're doing
with career and technical education we
are excited um our advisory council
myself ms dalton dr jones miss petty and
miss powell have been working and
meeting collaboratively
on a weekly basis having conversations
about what needs to be done a lot of
work going on behind the scenes we are
moving forward we are excited that
curriculum is in in the stages of being
worked on we've got equipment in the
facilities um we're finalizing some of
the facility updates
we're in the process of
interviewing candidates miss
dalton myself and ms powell been
interviewing and miss craig this week
and last week and we're excited about
the the outcomes of that and some new
staff that we're going to be bringing on
we are um
are having some interest we're starting
to get applications for the stem academy
i think we're at about 30 applicants
right now
for students so we're still
putting that information out there
certainly if parents and students are
interested all the information has been
shared with us all of the school
principals and counselors it's on our
school website for the stem academy and
dr james has been included in his
superintendent's minutes
so we're excited about that we've gotten
a lot of phone calls a lot of emails
from parents from students asking
additional questions about that um so
we're excited about the opportunities um
we're also working with the elementary
stem ms petty and miss chapel and her
team um so a lot of collaboration with
our elementary middle
stem academy and then career and
technical center certainly making sure
we have that full k-12 spectrum
in place so we're excited to see
what we have coming up this upcoming
school year with the stem academy
a lot of great things happening
and you're going to see a lot more in
the in the next month or so
questions about stem academy dr jones
anything else do you have any questions
i i can tell you the kids love it
um
i know my grandson does but it's real
interesting to see the things that
you've kind of done with the career
connection and how the middle school
exploratories are tying in and how all
of it's now kind of coming together and
pretty much
ending over to cte with all of the stuff
you have there so
it's pretty neat to see all of that now
compared to where we were
five years ago 10 years ago
how much
that program has come along and how stem
ties into it
and we're excited about the stem academy
um you know miss dalton being a former
science teacher and my current technical
education background i think it's going
to be a very
very unique merging of the two um and
the candidates that we've we've
interviewed and certainly sent forth
before the board tonight on one of those
and what we already have and what we're
what we're looking at i think you're
going to see
some dynamic teaching some innovative
teaching some unique opportunities for
students to be
very engaged in their learning um and
understanding how those core academics
and
and applicational skills in career and
technical education the health and
medical sciences and the advanced career
connections go hand in hand um so i
think we're going to see really some
some neat things happening we are this
is a model program
we're getting a lot of phone calls about
this but we're very protective of it
until we get it right
because we want this to be
a top-notch program that we're very
excited about that we can put the stamp
of approval on once we finally you know
finalize it we're ready to launch it
this fall
i think what's interesting is a lot of
this has been done through grants and
and the fact that
we've been able y'all been able to go
and talk to the people that give the
grants and convince them
that this is money well spent and it has
been
and every time you get another grant to
get some more equipment it just makes it
better
and then you know it gives you more to
say here's what we're doing so
it's been a lot of work you know i've
done a lot and i really appreciate it
because it is really going to be
nice for the students
to have this opportunity
anybody else mr very briefly thank you
you mr often done a great job you should
be very proud but we're sure certainly
proud of you folks
thank you
anybody else dr jones i miss rigney one
thing that i wish you'd have brought
tonight is your presentation she's been
presenting she's two different clubs and
she was with rotary today
and just an outstanding presentation
that she provided to the rotary today in
chatham
let me ask you another mike well
y'all probably laugh and i know dr jones
and and miss dalton helped me i when i
got out of the truck it's somewhere out
here in the parking lot
i don't know where yet
but i did have that presentation and i
will send that to you all so you can see
that
also just to echo what dr jones i said i
was on a rotary roll
i think i had presented to all three
rotaries three rotaries in the last week
and a half so it's been good to to get
out in front of community groups and
share that presentation and yes i was
wanting to to share that presentation so
i had to pull it off the cuff this
evening and and
give you what i could but i will share
that presentation with you all so you
can see because i did have a lot of the
grand information on there and some of
the other things that we've got coming
coming down the pipe okay thank you
anybody else
thank you mr reagan thank you appreciate
it you're welcome and i thank you back
there too right it's hard to see who
somebody is with the mask on but
thank you
does anybody have any question on the
five desk reports
if not i'm gonna move on to the
superintendent's report
yes sir um
first i'd like to share some very good
news that came to me just probably an
hour or so ago uh mr scott and mrs
reynolds have announced that they were
notified
by the universal service administrative
company
that the grant has been fully funded the
grant amount is for 1 million
155 thousand dollars
for chromebooks
for the school division and this will
allow
the school division to provide
a one-to-one
for high school students
then also allow for us to
place chromebooks in our middle
and high sc in elementary schools so
that we have those available
throughout the county
so we're very excited
i think her staff is somewhat
a little apprehensive about the amount
of work i see all that i see people back
here
but but it's a lot of work in it i tell
you it speaks volumes i'd say our staff
is never satisfied and they're never
satisfied they seek grants and that is a
lot of work to write grants and we
appreciate again
you all reaching out and finding those
dollars for pennsylvania county schools
so thank you
the other item i have i provided up for
you at your retreat on on saturday of
information regarding the bills that are
in the general assembly
just real quickly we'll kind of
highlight some of those bills
the first three bills they're house
bills
that are very supportive of sros in our
schools and that's house bill 8
house bill 37
and house bill 873
all support uh funding of school
resource officers
in middle and high and then at least one
elementary middle and high
there are some bills that greatly impact
or have the the uh could greatly impact
funding for our schools
and those are
house bill 201
and that's education vouchers
house bill 293 education savings
accounts house bill 333
student education accounts
house bill 344
public charter schools
house bill 346
college partnership laboratory schools
house bill 356
regional charter schools
house bill
784 home instruction of private
private school tax it provides home
instruction private school tax credits
house bill 788
uh sets up education improvement
scholarship programs
house bill 982 education savings
accounts and it goes on there are many
bills in the house right now
that will take public funding
to support private and home school
students
also
the
trying to find the t-mobile is back on
the agenda as well and i'll provide that
that number for you all
um
and then a couple of senate bills senate
bill 16 senate bill 608
and senate bill 709
all provide scholarships or vouchers for
students again taking
public dollars
for private schools and home schools
um so just to be mindful of that i'll
provide i'll send you all
the uh the chart with the link so you
can go and
see the bills
any questions regarding
any bills i know mr henderson and mr
doss have been to richmond
anything you all would like to add
regarding those
other than it was a whole lot of bills
in front of
them that would negatively impact our
funding for public education and
i hope they get defeated that's what's
going to hurt us
in all public education
and then the only the items i have left
are the the conferences the vspa
southern spring regional forum is march
the 8th and that evening you all have a
school board meeting that's a virtual
meeting
and then the hot topic april hot topic
conference is is hybrid and that's april
the 20th
and mr dawson that's all i have this
evening
okay anybody have any questions for the
superintendent
nope
now there's no unfinished business we'll
move to new business um coveted updates
and approvals dr jones you have
yes sir report for us yes sir i do just
to provide some information to keep you
all up to date on where we are with the
new processes that's in place uh mrs
haymore and her staff have put together
a new protocol or in addition to the
protocol that we shared with you the
powerpoint just like to bring that to
your attention i think there's a slide
in your
presentation or your board docs this
evening but
uh school responsibilities so it defines
school responsibilities for confirmed
positive cases and this is what's
required of schools to document
confirmed positive cases on the
appropriate form that's been developed
by mrs haymore's department communicate
return to school dates to parents of
positive cases
monitor mass uses for students returning
on days six to ten
and then students should be marked as
rlp for those days
for direct exposures
direct direct parents to the infographic
summarizing cdc
recommended isolation and quarantine
periods to determine students rts time
return to school time
and then central office responsibilities
are to monitor division level cova 19
data in collaboration with the vdh
report positive cases to the vdh daily
update covet 19 dashboard daily
and assist schools and determine tracing
needs for challenging cases and our
specific situations this is a change
that we provide information for you
since we've come back from christmas
break
any questions for me or mrs haymore and
i see mrs karen yates in the audience
this evening can provide answers for you
all
any questions
all right
i want to make one statement
when the pandemic started
this school board
chose to follow the governor's
recommendations throughout the pandemic
in january we chose to continue to
follow the government's record
governor's recommendations which is
executive order number two
which gives the parents the right to
choose if their child wears a mask or
not at school
there's been several lawsuits that have
gone to court regarding this
and honestly i was hoping that
tonight we would have a better clearer
picture of what
that lawsuits would have told us about
the executive order but we do not
the first ruling was for seven school
districts it was in alexandria the seven
school districts that
sued the governor's executive order
the judge up there ruled that the school
divisions had the right
to decide that they had the power not
the governor for those seven school
divisions
the governor did office did come out and
say they was going to appeal that
decision
but right now that decision gave those
seven school districts the right to to
either
have the mass mandate or not
the second one went to the supreme court
this week
it was parents from chesapeake
the supreme court dismissed that case
without ruling on it
they threw it
out of court on a technicality and did
not rule at all on the governor's
executive order
don't know if that will be
reheard or not
i don't know what the parents down there
will do but it was apparently they
didn't file it correctly
so the supreme court issued no ruling on
it
executive order number two
so we will continue what we're doing
right now and that's following the
governor's
guidance until something else changes
and if it changes then we will change
too
so
any any other board members have any
comments on it on the cobot mask or
anything
nope okay
um i need a motion to declare some
surplus property
i'll make that motion
we'll have a second second
and mr scott it's an old um classroom
right
it's one we no longer use
okay
anybody have any questions on it
is kentucky right kentucky yes
all right roll columnist mr burton
mr henderson all right miss marrix aye
mr mills aye mr moon aye mr doss all
right
the final item we have tonight is to
elect the new vice chairman since
reverend ramsey has resigned the floor
is open for any nominations for vice
chairman
could i nominate don moon you can don't
have a second
a second
okay have a motion in a second for dawn
any others
anybody else
can you do a roll call
mr burton aye mr henderson abstain
ms merricks uh
mr mills aye mr moon
aye mr doss aye
don't have a motion to adjourn
i'll make a motion with journey
come second second
all in favor say hi you need rico roll
call please mr burton aye mr henderson
aye miss merricks mr mills aye mr moon
all right mr doc all right
thank you all everyone for coming
tonight we appreciate y'all being here
thank goodness it was a little bit
shorter but um
hope everybody has a good evening be
safe going home
you